---
layout: post
title:  "Tomorrow is a Good Day"
summary: For School Magazine
---

I am writing this on the 22nd of February, 2014. It’s just after my mid semester examination and I am at peace with my college. It was around the same date in last December that I was supposed to hand over an article for our school magazine to Alieyamma Miss. It’s been two month and finally I found the resolute to sit through this. It takes barely 2 hours to get done with. But till now it did not happen. Every day passed with me thinking “Today’s not the day to write this, I will do it soon enough” and it did not happen till now. And that’s why, I fixed upon writing about how we all (almost all, I guess) very “skilfully” procrastinate.

I could probably exhibit an array of reasons as to why I did not do this till now. But deep down, we very well know it was a matter of initiative to get our work done with. We expect it to happen all by itself. There is this feeling of tomorrow being a better day and “now” being probably not the best time to do what you want to do. Had we started one day and just sat through it, it would be done with and the amount of satisfaction it gives us is enormous. But every time, there is something to distract us, something to pull us away, be it Facebook, the new episode of your favourite TV show or even playing Flappy Bird. We end up spending way too much time on these than we ever intended to and some regret it, while some don’t. Remember telling yourselves that you would watch just one episode and not more, and eventually finishing up the whole season?

Or the last time you were late in submitting your Chemistry record or Math assignment? (I have an abundance of such memories, as most teachers who taught me would certify.) In these cases the problem is two-fold. I mean, in case of submissions. Probably completing the record would have taken maybe again like two hours? For a submission on Monday, any time before Sunday would be seen as too early to start your work. “It’s only Friday. I have the whole of Saturday and Sunday in front of me”. And Saturday’s like, “Weekend finally, time to relax. I will complete my work on Sunday”. Time slips by until its Sunday night 9 o clock. There are two kinds of people here. One who sits through the night and does complete the work, and others, the ones who consider sleep rather too precious. For the latter group of guys, misery levels up. Now that you’re late anyways, there isn’t a deadline anymore and you start procrastinating indefinitely. Indefinitely up to any day, until the teacher threatens to never accept your record. Or maybe you never would. So the gist being, it’s always best to submit your work on the assigned day or else, it will plague you till the end of days. I guess, this should sound familiar to a lot of us. If it doesn’t, you probably are well organised and needs little change in your work style.

But if it does, and I ask you what your biggest source of distraction is, undoubtedly most of you would name your gadgets, mobile phones and PCs. All these technologies were a result of research and development to help human beings become more efficient and save time spent on trivial activities, they say. The irony! But the problem is once you are online to clear your doubt in physics or collect information on your Social Science project, these would be the last things (if at all) you would do. Time flies by, you know, once you start scrolling on Facebook, entertaining yourselves on YouTube, “enlightening” yourselves on Quora or messaging on Whatsapp. One another thing is watching movies and all. Personally I would never suggest against watching movies. They are creations of genius (the good movies) as worthy of appreciation as a good book. Patronising those, I would say, is never a waste of time. But beware; keep a light year distance from TV series. They are hell addictive, are usually of lesser artistic and intellectual value, and bite away a huge chunk of your time. Unless of course, we are talking about Breaking Bad! Even if you are not so much into visual media, I would recommend BB to you. (lol. jk). Compromising your sleep is never the solution. No matter how much time they claim you waste sleeping, I would still say its time best used. I find myself having more concentration, better memory and better thought process, after a good long sleep than anytime else. Even my vocabulary improves considerably after a long nap. (No kidding!)

Some people want their lives to be more dynamic and hence prefer not to schedule anything in advance. They want to take things as they come and “go with the flow”. It was a holy revelation for me when someone wrote about how having a proper schedule and planning ahead is the key to a more dynamic life. The more planned you are for each day of your life, the more varied it will be from the other days. Each day become considerably distinguished from the previous. Something else I read somewhere; it’s good if you have this one particular activity you do every day at a specific time. Be it anything, like praying (for those who do) or maybe reading the newspaper (for my numerically abundant atheistic juniors) at say 6 in the evening. Even though I haven’t tried any of these to certify effects, they seem very rational and had been certified by a lot of people on the internet (including anonuser137). This would help you get fall on track for the rest of the day and help keep distraction at bay.

An article on waitbutwhy.com, titled “Why Procrastinators Procrastinate” helps put things in perspective. “A non-procrastinators brain is given its course by the Rational Decision Maker, while a procrastinator has the same guy in his brain, but coexisting with the Instant Gratification Monkey. The fact is, the Instant Gratification Monkey is the last creature who should be in charge of decisions—he thinks only about the present, ignoring lessons from the past and disregarding the future altogether, and he concerns himself entirely with maximizing the ease and pleasure of the current moment. He doesn’t understand the Rational Decision-Maker at all—why would we continue doing this jog, he thinks, when we could stop, which would feel better. Why would we complete our assignment when it’s not fun? Why would we ever use a computer for work when the internet is sitting right there waiting to be played with? He thinks humans are insane.” Good read; for if you ever get time (see what I did here?).

All this stuff I wrote are from my experiences in procrastinating and not from that of overcoming procrastination (which in fact, has never happened). I am no expert. But I do know very well how procrastination occurs and what its major sources are. The feeling a regular procrastinator gets when he does something at the right time, no words can ever express that. So it’s up to you to feel confident about yourselves and put your work habits on track. I am very regular when it comes to procrastination and I can assure you it’s not a good quality to possess. I would love to kill that Instant Gratification Monkey and am sure that would ease my sufferings a lot. So next time you find yourselves on the internet browsing aimlessly, realise it’s time to shut up your PC and get on to something more productive and worth doing. I feel bad for having taken so long to get this done with. So if you are in fact reading this: Yay!
