---
layout: post
title:  "The Sentinel"
summary: Story on a mysterious man on a mission
---

###Brookville, Indiana, 1878.
Bishop Milton Wright was interrupted by a young man, while he was
admiring the exquisite collection of pots, kettles, silverware,
jewelery and handicrafts that decorated the shelves of the gift shop.
“Quite a masterpiece, huh?”, he asked the bishop, holding up a toy
helicopter made of bamboo, cork and paper. The man was thirty-
something and had distinctive blue eyes and golden hair.
“Yes, sure it is”, the bishop agreed.
“This is based on the planophore designed by Alphonse Penaud. This
structure will fly if you power it using the rubber band. This would
be the perfect gift for if I had a son. Do you have sons sir?”, he
asked, scanning the exquisite piece of toy.
“Yes, four of them. A daughter too”, replied the beaming bishop.
“I suggest you get them this wonderful toy”, said the young man
holding out the toy to the bishop.
“Well, I would have loved to. Unfortunately, I would not be able to
afford this piece of craft at the moment. Maybe I can get it for them
the next time I come to Brookville”
But the young man kept insisting. “It’s the only piece I’ve seen
ever. I detest to think that someone who would never know the science
or value would possess this. I’m sure, sons of a man like you would
appreciate this”.
But the bishop was helpless. So the young man went forward and bought
the toy for the bishop’s kids with his own money.
The bishop thanked the young lad profusely. “May God bless you. My
youngest sons Orville and Wilbur are ever so curious and I am sure
they are going to love this”.
“Well, if they do, the pleasure would be all mine”.

###Avignon, 1880.
The fire crackled in the fireplace as embers rose from smoldering
pieces of wood and coal as if lifted by a magical gas. Joseph stared
unintendedly at the dying fire reclined comfortably on the couch
directly across the fireplace. He was holding an open book in one
hand and was lost in thought. Silence prevailed except from the
occasional crackle of the fire and random travelers who passed him
towards the dining area of the inn.
Meanwhile, a young traveler rested himself beside Joseph on the
couch. The traveler looked like he was in his early-twenties, and had
distinct dark blue eyes and golden hair. He smelled heavily of the
Algerian wine they were serving at the dinner. Joseph did not mind him.
“What book are you holding there sire?”, asked the traveler.
“Oh! It is a book on politics”, Joseph replied.
“Can I read it?”
Joseph figured that in no way could the drunk traveler be interested
in politics. But he was not reading the book at the moment and had no
choice but to hand it over.
“Hmm. You are reading about a place called G- Gib- Gibroltar?”, the
traveler persisted.
“Gibraltar. Yes”
“What happened in Gibroltar?”
“Gibraltar. Its a British colony. You can read more from the book if
you are interested.”, Joseph tried to ward off the traveler.
Gibraltar was one of the most fortified and fought-over places in
Europe. An assault on Gibraltar was impossible as the area was
impregnable from both sea and land and was one of great military
issues of the time.
“These walls are quite huge sire. So, Gibroltar is completely
impregnable sire?”, questioned the traveler after glancing through
some pictures in the book.
“Yes. By both sea and land”, Joseph was starting to get highly
annoyed by the intruder into his solitude.
“But what about by air. Like the embers over the fireplace, can’t we
fly over the fort wall. I bet if we tried hard enough, we could do
the same”
The traveler kept ranting. But Joseph was not listening anymore. He
had stopped the moment the traveler mentioned the embers. He was
staring at the fire, intently this time, at the embers rising as if
by a magical gas. A magical gas with the magical property of
levitation.
The traveler had stopped talking. He rose to leave. “My business
here is over. I must get moving before it gets any darker. May I know
your name sire, before I leave. Holla sire. Sire?”
This broke Joseph out of his train of thoughts. “Joseph-Michel
Montgolfier.”
Three years later, Joseph along with his younger brother Jacques
launched the first ever manned ascent on their hot air balloon, Globe
Aerostatique, during a public demonstration at Annonay .

###London,1947.
Arthur was only partially listening to the rant of the man he was
sharing the cab with, and kept mostly to the book he was reading. “Do
you believe in God?”, asked the man.
“No”, Arthur replied crisply.
“Well you know what I think?”
“No”.
“I think that God is actually an alien from far away. He is effecting
our lives by working out the details. You know, how a small idea can
snowball into giant world changing ones. What if he always sets the
ball rolling. He is the sentinel of human race.”
“That’s quite an interesting theory, but highly implausible”,
dismissed Arthur considering the young man to be another nut-case
conspiracy theorists.
“Well, you told me you write often. If you find it interesting, why
don’t you write a story based on my theory”.
“Well, I will consider that”, Arthur lied.
But for the rest of the cab ride, the idea grew on Arthur. The man’s
theory was eccentric, but it was interesting nevertheless. He dozed
off with the thought on his mind. When Arthur woke up to the cab
slowing down, he wanted to tell the man as to how he would consider
writing about his theory, meaning it this time.
But the man was gone. And the only thing Arthur C Clarke could
remember about the man, were his dark blue eyes and his golden hair.
