---
layout: post
title:  "Elections in KGP"
---

I assumed election in IIT Kharagpur was going to be an exhibition of innovation and unconventionality. I assumed how the few who would dare to make revolting changes in the institute would take help from similar minded people to propagate and garner support for their propositions, and eventually win the elections. I assumed a fair world wherein, at the onset, every candidate stands an equal chance to reach the acme. These are all what I assumed would happen once I got to know that KGP was gearing up for its annual elections. Well, personally, I found them exciting and engaging, but not quite so innovative or out of the box as I would have wanted it to be.

Instead what I saw was something very similar to the process of elections in national politics or everywhere else. The proposals, the credentials - essentially the value addition the candidate would probably make - were not the only deciding factors when it came to choosing a winner. Instead of pitching an ideological battle, what eventually would come out is essentially a battle between halls of residence and “pacts”. From a campus boasting of a huge population, the number of candidates for the post of vice president, the most crucial link between students and the administration, was just three. I realised how the so called “pacts” would try to minimize the competition by blindly rendering support to the “chosen ones” and strike down upon anyone else wanting to compete. I believe KGP could do with a lot more progressive ideas and the pact system is in no way a constructive addition to the cause, as its supposedly the “higher authorities” that dictate the so called “proposals of the candidates”.

The start was very exciting for me as a freshman. I came to know about how the hall days were actually kind of a decoy for the candidates to pitch their cause. Beautiful! The fact that I had a freshman friend who was contesting for elections, helped put things in better perspective for me. So on evening of the very first hall day, this friend of mine was frantically searching for a white shirt. My questioning of the basic motive of doing so was met with a vague reply revolving around “senior funda”. I tried imagining all the possible reasons as to why all the candidates should be in white and black. Perhaps to reflect the monotonous nature of the core of the election process waiting to happen? Monotonicity continued for me, as one by one the candidates came to our friends’ rooms and started introducing themselves, or “giving intro” as KGP calls it. I suggested my same friend to try something different in his introduction, maybe like break away from the prescribed format, for starters. Perhaps a conversation more based on the stakes of the voter in the department pertaining to the candidate could prove more worthy and striking.

Something I hugely awaited was the event of soapbox. I always loved well made speeches and witty replies. But then again, it was a bit of a disappointment that I skipped the later ones and reduced to just following it online through Scholars’ Avenue. I had this initial impression that the proposals and replies were largely pre-decided as was somewhat evident from the huge disparity in the standard of answers for different questions. Later speeches confirmed it. Somebody else preparing proposals and statements for the candidate often inhibited free thinking and appropriate replies. The panel was also a disappointment as they either kept asking the same old questions carrying no value or picking on certain aspects of the candidate not relevant to him/her contesting the elections and the responsibility he/she is about to undertake. But disregarding all these, there were often flashes of brilliance, both from the candidates and the panelists.

In the end, I felt merit was not the only decisive factor in the results. It was gruelling for the candidates and the effort they had put in needs utmost appreciation. What the elections could be is more of a battle of ideas and skill, as opposed to the status quo of clashing halls and pacts. Naturally what I expected at the onset was a process wherein there were no affiliations for the candidate and all that mattered was the one deserving and delivering winning, and frankly it was not such.
