---
layout: post
title:  "Struggle is Real"
---

 Something about myself for today. Well, its not exactly something that depresses me. Rather it is a hurdle I find too tough to overcome. And again, its not just me - a hell lot of people face these troubles. Most people I guess.

This is not the first blog that I've started writing. I had started tons of them before I ever came to this. But probably this is the first one that went beyond 5 posts. And that too, in a span of a week. And I admit, I am proud of myself in terms of this blog. So what basically I am coming to is my ever staying trouble in getting things done, or meeting my goals. I am ambitious just like everybody else and I plan to do certain things on certain days. I set short term goals, and long term goals. But most often, almost 99% of the time, I will fail to convert the ideas to productive work. And it worries me, wondering, if at all I am ever going to overcome my negligent nature.

This problem spans all spheres of activity I do. Usually I plan to do things like, read up about something by this day, learn how to do that by this certain day, go to play tomorrow evening 5'o clock, sent the email today night, complete assignment by Sunday - the types of stuff I flunk in, its endless. Its one of the biggest concerns I have about myself. Rarely do I ever complete an assignment on time, or finish the reading goals set for myself. And when I look back, I know that there were numerous occasions when I promised myself to get ride of these vices and be a better person. And I still flunk. This makes me worried to the point of wondering as if to whether there ever is a way to eliminate this failure routine.

The cause is inertia. The root cause of failure to carry out tasks as planned or required, is my inability to disturb any comfort zone I currently am in. It starts from hour zero when I fail to wake up at a planned time, because sleep is rather too comforting that having to wake up. Inability to give up the good present for a brighter future. I have observed that often when I redirect myself into one activity I was supposed to be doing with high amount of will power, I would be able to sustain in it without much pushing until I hit a roadblock. But most of the time, the problem is getting to initiate oneself to do what is required of him. Ever if I find myself scrolling purposelessly on Facebook or Quora, I wish to open up another page and do some reading on Algorithms or implement something in code. But the lucrative power of these pages are so much so that, we tend to comeback once in a while, and eventually reboot to scrolling around aimlessly again. Often I catch myself closing off the tab on my browser that had something productive in it, so as to resume the effortless and more entertaining pursuit in the other tab. The justification I present myself is to forget this once and I could always make up another time or day.

But history has suggested that would not be the case. This happens again and again, and you become more and more frustrated about not being able to meet your goals. The inertia is so much that, I can't even break out of it for a few minutes even, not even to carry out a chore. I just remember that I was supposed to call a friend of mine to ask him to get me certain documents, and was planning to "do it later" for about 3 days. I hate myself for this certain vice. I have often given up on lot of things I wanted to do, due to inertia. Like, starting up, learning a sport, meeting certain people, going certain places. I am starting to feel depressed.

I find success had always manifested when I was ready to give up a moment of comfort or joy with a vision for the time ahead. I was always proud of myself for giving up an interesting football match to go for the selections of a certain fraternity at college, which I eventually made into. The inertia that day was too much that I decided I would rather not go. It was them calling to make sure I would turn up at nine that night for their interviews that prompted me to eventually push myself. Often giving up interesting nights to finish my files of lab reports had paid up when I did not flunk like a minority in class did.

In general, I have figured out few hacks to get things going on days where you would otherwise just not do anything. The most successful one so far was the strategy of waking up early. Our mind is preset to believe that X is the certain time of day by when one finally readies himself to go forward and do his job. Maybe like 9 in the morning or something. Every holiday that you wake after 9'o clock makes you feel like you have gone beyond the time which starting to do anything is not worthwhile. Rather, I had unusually high productivity on Saturdays or Sundays on which I start early. Maybe it is the extra time you get to orient yourselves before the day "actually begins" or maybe its just the positiveness associated with your accomplishment (early-to-rise-accomplishment of course).

Apart from this, one more simple thing I would try doing is not to get too comfortable with anything I am doing. Often, I create situations like not being able to sit and browse facebook - which inevitably leads to some kind of action and break in inertia - that could motivate me to proceed to productivity. Or maybe not getting too cozy on my bed reading the novel. Or putting away the charger of the phone I am playing a game on, which is about to run out of stored charge.

Roadblocks. They often hinder out sustenance in a productive venture that we had the will power to initiate. I couldn't count the number of times I've given up coding because I could not find the solution to a particular problem. I don't have a remedy for roadblock other than to stick around and keep attempting or to change the course by a small degree.

All in all its the will power and the desire to succeed that should drive efforts to break lethargy. Any number of hacks could prove ineffective in the face of not having enough drive or enough insight of the future. So I want myself to learn lessons from past mistakes and bring down the number of times I flunk. Because not meeting goals lead to frustration, and of course depression. 
