We don't appreciate our places enough. The same roads I travel through almost every other day in a car, the same pavements, the same inroads. All of them seemed like completely different places, while traveling on foot.

The evening was mildly chilly, and I was with company. There were three of us, all of us with no plans for the future, both immediate and long term, and a common consensus to hit the road on foot. All of us, lived pretty close to each other and the area was equally well known. After being shut out to a remote campus in the middle of nowhere for four months, what I looked forward to in Kochi turned out to be the traffic, the crowd, the sprawling malls and the city lights. So the nearest highway, that's where we were headed to.

The highway was inviting. Just enough traffic to set the mood, but not too much to disturb our stroll by the side. The wind blew against our faces now, and we embraced the chill. The atmosphere was serene, even with rushing cars, and roaring trucks. I found peace because I could walk as slow as I wished, and not be worried about being late anywhere. I could choose to take the diversion, I could go around the longer path. I could go back any time I wished to, and not be worried about waking up late the next day. It felt like, after a long time, I had so many choices. There were people rushing, but we were in no hurry. All of us had stories to tell, and we took our turns while waiting for the traffic to thin down so we could cut across the road. The fact that I did not complete as much work as I should've did not bother me much then. I was not overwhelmed by all the race back at college everyone is getting part of, then. 

Instead, I was watching the traffic, about people cruising really fast towards home, or to a destination, or to meet an emergency. I thought of all the times at college when a test or a submission the next day meant any kind of outing could not last longer than the bare minimum amount of time, for there is work and responsibility to attend to. I wondered why my choices led me to a point where those kinds of days happen more often than the present day. Humanity has evolved with a lot of systems in place which literally drains happiness and calm out of people. I understand it's a necessity for advancement of civilization, but the realization is shadowed by the question as to whether college, and education in general has evolved to mass produce human resources to cater to corporations, rather than to a collective effort to forward humanity.

But I don't care. Because, I don't deem myself fit to race to the finish, for I need to stop, and I need to breathe slow, and I need to think alone. And today was turning out to be an actualization of the dream to chill much. So, we crossed the road and took abode in a good coffee place. There were barely ten people in there, and we talked about Japanese shows, British movies, and sandwiches. When we finished and paid our bills, leaving only 10 rupees as tip for an extremely courteous coffee shop guy (he did not seem like a full time waiter, and hence I would refrain from using that word), we decided to walk further. 

Soon we reached this inroad I always see, but never bothered to explore, and decided it's where we wanted to go. The experience was kind of revelatory, because while passing by in a car, these roads, and houses, and trees, beyond the pavement seemed like a 2-d wall of pictures, which exist as a prop to the road, to complement the view, and it kind of never occurred to me there could be space in there, living people, and activity. But there they were, lots of houses to which if you peeked, you could see people watching television, and the roads, branching out to even more of them proving the existence of abundant life beyond what I could see.

I think this revelation was similar to what you call sonder. It means you realize everyone you see, including the one guy whose you saw sitting in a speeding bus, for probably the first and the last time, leads a life as complex, and happening as yours, or that the world exist beyond your immediate surrounding, with or without you. This exploration to the inroad was an extension to the idea.

And, when you walk as opposed to traveling in a car, everything on the road seems different, assumes a value, and you actually acknowledge their existence. As we walked beside the road, on a stretch filled with small rounded pieces of stones, I realized how the stones became significant suddenly because we had difficulty navigating on them as they kept slipping on each other. The poles with reflecting stickers at the edge of the road seemed to to spaced rather too far from each other than I would've ever imagined from what I'd seen from car window. You now walk at a pace where you find time to marvel at everything you see on and beside the road and it feels surreal to see it that way, when you realize you had been traveling through this place for years.

While on the way back to our homes, the place had died down a bit, with lesser cars and trucks, and more silence. I realized all three of us were in fact having a good time when the common decision was to take the longest route home. As we walked back it was around 10 and people were closing up, workers leaving, and it seemed like the serenity I felt was spreading amongst other people, a lot of whom were headed back home, to family and comfort.

My house was the farthest, and after the second friend's house, I took to my cycle, that I'd carried along, to negotiate the rest of the distance. As the wind blew, and the cold proved to be perfect to my liking, I could only realize that the day was worth remembering, maybe in written words. Back here I started writing, and as I finish up, I can only tell you how true they are, when they say words flow when you bleed, when they say you need perpetual emotions if you want to write for life.


