---
layout: post
title:  "Key and Peele favourites!"
---
My favourite Key and Peele sketches.


So, about 4 years after the show started, Key and Peele are finally calling it a day with their show on Comedy Central. Two of the smartest men whose work I’d the pleasure of watching, knowing they won’t be making anymore of humour dense sketches makes me sad. As a tribute, I’d like to countdown, from the top of my head, through my favourite sketches.

15. Obama’s Anger Translator

A K&P classic character, Luther is Obama’s anger translator. He vents out the frustration and raises honest opinions that Obama ex officio, cannot, himself. (Key got called out to White House Correspondents Dinner to be Obama’s anger translator for real. Check that out too).

14. Les Mis

Maybe a musical movie is too conveniently made? Turns out it is.

13. East/West College Bowl

“There really are some characters on this year’s squads.”

12. Substitute Teacher

Another K&P classic, the no-bullshit substitute teacher. (A movie based on the substitute teacher is on the cards. :D ).

11. Fronthand Backhand

Have you played Fronthand Backhand yet?

10. Loco Gangsters

Carlito is loco.

9. Consequences

Don’t do drugs. Cause, consequences.

8. Insult Comic

Key is an insult comedian in this sketch and he gets into a pickle when a differently abled member of the audience wants to be roasted.

7. Nooice

“Nooice.”

“Nooice?”

“Nooice.”

6. Awesome Hitler Story

Ty Burrell’s character can’t get enough attention from his sub-ordinates as he narrates his encounters with the Fuhrer.

5. High On Potenuse

“I wish I was high on potenuse”.

4. Proud Thug

Carlito’s back, but this time he’s more loco, and tougher.

3. The Telemarketer

Gem from Season 5. This telemarketer has a strange way of dealing with customers.

2. Al Qaeda Meeting

“The mighty T.S.A.”

1. You Can Do Anything

“..ain’t nothing figurative about this..”

Fin.
ComedyPolitics